We could begin by creating some controllers and
working down the architectural stack,
but I actually want to take a bottom-up approach in this course.
If you started with a good database and schema,
that will give you an excellent base for the rest of your app.
Since we just finished connecting to the database,
the next step is to apply some JPA entities so that we
can talk to the database structures.
Let's start by heading over to the model package that we created earlier.
That's be in the java folder in the com.pluralsight .conference,
and you'll see that there is the models package.
To add a new JPA model here, I can simply right-click,
go to the new menu, and say Java class.
And we'll go ahead and begin by creating the session class,
which will map to the conference sessions.
So the name for the new Java class will be Session.
Hit Enter, and we have a new plain Java class.
Next, we need to annotate this as a JPA entity,
so I can do that by adding a class-level annotation at the top.
Anytime you bring in a new entity or object,
you'll also need to import that,
and IntelliJ can help me with that by clicking on the Import class.
We want to choose the javax.persistence Entity class for our import.
I've also given it a name of sessions because that is
the name of our database table.
In the database, we have a plural name for our database table,
and the class itself is called Session singular because it
will be one instance or row of that data.
Next thing I'm going to do is add a default constructor to all of my entities.
This simply helps with serialization and deserialization,
which will happen when we plug in the controllers later on
to marshal the data into and out of JSON.
You could use IntelliJ to create the constructor,
but it's simple to just create a public session constructor.
I can now map the table columns to the Java attributes in the Session class.
I'm going to add the following class attributes
with their appropriate data type.
A quick sidebar discussion here, I want to mention something about conventions.
Notice that the variable names aren't technically Java standard camelCase names.
I'm keeping them the exact same name, spelling,
and format as the database columns.
By doing this, JPA will auto-bind to those columns,
and I don't need to annotate them.
If I wanted to change them to match standard Java camelCase,
I can do that by simply adding an @column annotation on each
attribute and mapping it appropriately.
Since we're not diving too deep into JPA in this course,
I'm going to leave this as is for simple speed and convenience.
There is one annotation that I do have to add,
and that is the id annotation to specify which attribute is the primary key.
So above the session_id attribute, I'm going to add the following code.
I'll go ahead and import the classes as needed.
For Id, we want to use the JavaX persistence Id.
This tells JPA that the IDE is the primary key field and that the
GeneratedValue annotation specifies how the primary key field gets
populated on a new record insert.
By using the IDENTITY strategy,
JPA will utilize the Postgres created sequence for primary key values.
Here's the table structure for the sessions in the Postgres database,
and you'll notice that the database PRIMARY KEY fields
are set to the serial data type.
When you create a table with serial data type,
it creates it as an integer and add an auto sequence to it,
which you can see here, the sessions_session_id_seq.
This means that Postgres will generate a sequenced auto-generated number
for your primary key whenever you insert a record.
Finally,
the last thing that we need to do is create getters and
setters for the attributes we've added.
IntelliJ can do this quickly simply by right-clicking in the class,
clicking on the Generate menu item, selecting Getters and Setters,
then you can select all of the attributes,
and click OK.
You'll see that IntelliJ added them at the bottom of the class.
I can go ahead and save that file and make sure that I
don't have any compiler errors anywhere,
and that's it!
We've created one entity already.
What I'd like you to do now is build out an entity for the Speakers table.
Go ahead and pause the video and build everything in that table
similar to what we did for the session entity,
except do not add the speaker_photo field.
That's a binary field, and we'll deal with that field later in a later demo.
once you're done,
go ahead and restart the video and check back with how
you did compared to my solution.
Okay, here's what I have for the Speaker class.
You'll notice that I placed it in the models
package and that I called it Speaker.
I then added the annotation @Entity, gave it a name of speakers,
which maps to the actual table name, which is plural speakers,
but the class is singular.
I then added the attributes from that table with the
exception of the speaker image.
I then created a primary key by adding the @Id annotation
and the @GeneratedValue annotation.
I created a basic empty constructor, and I added all of the getters and setters.
If you didn't end up with something similar to that,
go ahead and fix up your code before moving on.
At this point, hopefully you're asking yourself,
what about the relationship between speakers and sessions?
In the database, we have a table called session_speakers.
How does that all work? That's what we'll be covering, coming up next!